README.md, before:

# Merch

## a shop that sells products

### to do:

1. Define my routes
	- in 'config/routes.rb' define RESTful routes for resources
2. generate Controller for primary resource (product)
	- define actions for endpoints (rails generate controller products index show new edit (dont need to create controller actions for create update or destroy because we don't need the corresponding views that will be created))
	- CRUD products
		- read - Before I can read any data I need a Model...
3.  Generate a model
	- product model will have a migration
	- list attributes in migration file
	- run 'rake db:migrate'
	- seed the DB
		- e.g. 'product.create({name: "coffee cup", price: "500"})'
	- 'rake db:seed'

4. Create some views for looking at the products

5. Create a form for adding data via browser

6. Handle create and update actions

7. Provide destroy functionality

---

8. Think about other resources (users)

9. add paperclip gem for image uploads

# creating users and authentication
# session control belongs to application controller - the parent of all other controllers

10. generate user model - rails generate user email password_digest

11. run migration

12. seed users

13. generate controller

14. add foreign key to products

15. set up associations between users and products

## notes
### what is REST (and RESTfulness)

REpresentational State Transfer

it is technobabble for HTTP convention expressed through server side code

Commit message:

added payment method using strike

README.md, after:

# Merch

## a shop that sells products

### to do:

1. Define my routes
	- in 'config/routes.rb' define RESTful routes for resources
2. generate Controller for primary resource (product)
	- define actions for endpoints (rails generate controller products index show new edit (dont need to create controller actions for create update or destroy because we don't need the corresponding views that will be created))
	- CRUD products
		- read - Before I can read any data I need a Model...
3.  Generate a model
	- product model will have a migration
	- list attributes in migration file
	- run 'rake db:migrate'
	- seed the DB
		- e.g. 'product.create({name: "coffee cup", price: "500"})'
	- 'rake db:seed'

4. Create some views for looking at the products

5. Create a form for adding data via browser

6. Handle create and update actions

7. Provide destroy functionality

---

8. Think about other resources (users)

9. add paperclip gem for image uploads

# creating users and authentication
# session control belongs to application controller - the parent of all other controllers

10. generate user model - rails generate user email password_digest

11. run migration

12. seed users

13. generate controller

14. add foreign key to products - using rails generate migration add_user_id_to_products user_id:index - will make sure the column is an index which makes DB lookups quicker



15. set up associations between users and products

## notes
### what is REST (and RESTfulness)

REpresentational State Transfer

it is technobabble for HTTP convention expressed through server side code
